The  next  generation  of  open operating  systems  won’t  be on  desktops  or  mainframes but on the small mobile devices we carry  every  day. The openness  of these  new environments  will  lead to  new  applications  and  markets and  will  enable  greater  integra-tion  with  existing  online  ser vices. However, as the importance of the data  and  services  our  cell  phones support increases, so too do the op-portunities for vulnerability. It’s es-sential that this next  generation  of platfor ms provide a comprehensive and usable secur ity infrastructure.Developed by the Open Hand-set Alliance (visibly led by Google), Android  is  a  widely  anticipated open  source  operating  system  for mobile devices that provides a base operating  system,  an  application middleware  layer,  a  Java  software development kit (SDK), and a col-lection  of  system  applications. Al-though the Android SDK has been available  since  late  2007, the  rst publicly  available  Android-ready “G1”  phone  debuted  in  late  Oc-tober 2008. Since then,  Android’s growth  has  been  phenomenal:  T-Mobile’s  G1  manufacturer  HTC estimates  shipment  volumes  of more than 1 million phones by the end of 2008, and industry insiders expect public adoption to increase steeply  in  2009.  Many  other  cell phone providers have either prom-ised  or  plan  to  support  it  in  the near future.A large com mun ity of develop-ers has organized around Android, and many new products and appli-cations are now available for it. One of Android’s chief selling points  is that  it  lets  developers  seamlessly extend  online  services  to  phones. The  most  visible  example  of  this feature  is—unsurprisingly—the  tight  integration  of  Google’s Gmail,  Calendar,  and  Contacts Web applications with system util-ities. Android users simply supply a username  and  password, and their phones  automatically  synchro-nize with  Google  services.  Other vendors  are  rapidly  adapting  their existing  instant  messaging,  social networks,  and gaming  ser vices  to Android, and many enterprises are looking for ways to integrate their own  internal  operations  (such  as inventory  management,  purchas-ing, receiving, and so forth) into it as well.Traditional  desktop  and  server operating  systems  have  struggled to securely integrate such personal and  business  applications  and  ser-vices on a single platform; although doing so on a mobile platform such as  Android  remains  nontrivial, many  researchers hope it provides a clean slate devoid of the compli-cations  that  legacy  software  can cause.  Android  doesn’t  ocially support  applications developed for other  platforms:  applications  ex-ecute on top of a Java middleware layer running on an embedded Li-nux kernel,  so developers wishing to port their application to Android must  use  its custom user  interface environment.  Additionally,  An-droid  restricts application  interac-tion to its special APIs by running each  application  as  its  own  user identity. Although  this  controlled interaction  has  several  benecial security  features,  our  experiences developing  Android  applications have revealed that designing secure applications  isn’t  always  straight-forward.  Android  uses  a  simple permission label assignment model to  restrict  access  to  resources  and other  applications,  but  for reasons of  necessity  and  convenience,  its designers  have  added  several  po-tentially  confusing  renements  as the system has evolved.This article attempts to unmask the complexity of Android security and note some possible development pit falls that occur when dening an application’s security. We conclude by attempting to draw some lessons and  identify  opportunities  for  fu-ture  enhancements that s
